2024-05-2300:20
Status: #Complete 
Tags: [[Fear and Terror]] 

Nuclear fission was discovered the Christmas of 1938 in Berlin, Nazi Germany by Lise Meitner (Physicist), Fritz Strassmann (Chemist), Otto Hahn (Chemist). After this discovery had been published in Nature, a British Journal, J. Robert Oppenheimer explored what could be done with the energy that came from the fission of Uranium; drawing the schematics for the atomic bomb after only a week. If there were 80 generations of reactions, the sum of the energy from all of those chain reactions ($\Sigma ^{^{80}}_{_{n=0}}E(3^n)$), then there would be sufficient energy to destroy a city. This development shocked the world as imagining a world in which the 1000-Year Reich was powered by nuclear weaponry was shocking, especially considering that the Jewish population just survived the Holocaust. Einstein signed a letter to Roosevelt, detailing that the time was coming where humanity would be capable of creating weapons of mass destruction. He implored the US to cease impartiality, take “quick action on the part,” and be the first to create such bombs. Western scientists are convinced that nuclear Nazi state was not only possible but inevitable if no action was taken. After the Nazi Invasion of the USSR, Hirohito’s Expansionism, and Japanese Alliance between Berlin and Rome (Axes), came Pearl Harbor. After which, the Manhattan Project was launched to combat the Nazis and in retaliation against Japan. This is what really brought TDR to involve the US into WWII, and out of their isolationist state. The US was willing to cooperate and coordinate military attacks with the USSR, Britain, and France, but not their scientific secrets (especially in regard to the Manhattan Project).